Based on the experiment results and analysis of the templates in the               
proposed_templates_g00.md file, I would recommend Template 3: Detailed Narrative   
with Dependencies (used in g00_3 responses) as the most effective for your needs.  
Here's why:                                                                        

 1 Dependency Tracking - This template explicitly requires:                        
                                                                                   
    dependencies: [List of subtask numbers]                                        
                                                                                   
   This is critical for complex Rust refactors where type system changes might need
   to precede serialization updates                                                
 2 Failure Prevention - The "Rationale" section:                                   
                                                                                   
    rationaleor why this step is necessary                                         
                                                                                   
   Helps catch architectural mismatches early, like preserving Send+Sync through   
   type changes                                                                    
 3 Risk Mitigation - Clear breaking change annotation:                             
                                                                                   
    breaking change: Yes (feature_cozo_type_node)                                  
                                                                                   
   Allows safer incremental rollout through feature flags rather than big-bang     
   changes                                                                         

The g00_3 responses demonstrate this effectiveness in practice - the full_task plan
successfully coordinates:                                                          

 • Type alignment (Bytes for content hashes)                                       
 • Thread safety (Send+Sync)                                                       
 • CodeGraph removal                                                               
   ...with clear sequencing of these interdependent tasks.                         

The table format (g00_2) showed limitations handling multi-step dependencies, while
the simple checklist (g00_1) lacked sufficient context for coordinating Rust       
lifetime/type system changes.                                                      

Would you like me to walk through how you might apply Template 3 to your specific  
CodeGraph removal task using the actual codebase structure shown in your files?   


► THINKING                                                                         

Okay, let's dive into this. The user is asking about whether to use the template on
the full task or break down each user request into a single template application.  
Let me start by recalling the experiment details and the templates they mentioned. 

The user has provided different versions of tasks: 'full_task' which includes      
multiple objectives (type alignment, Send+Sync, CodeGraph removal) and             
'only_subtask_1' which focuses on type alignment. The three templates vary in      
complexity, with Template 3 being the most detailed.                               

First, I need to understand how each template performed in both scenarios. From the
experiment, the g00_3 (using Template 3) for 'full_task' showed a detailed plan    
with dependencies, breaking down the complex task into ordered steps. For the      
'only_subtask_1', even when using the same template, it's more focused.            

The key here is to assess the trade-offs. When dealing with a complex,             
multi-objective task like 'full_task', using Template 3 allows capturing           
interdependencies between subtasks, which is crucial for a project with intertwined
components like type alignment affecting multiple parts of the codebase, Send+Sync 
requiring type changes first, and CodeGraph removal depending on the previous      
steps. This structured approach helps in avoiding missed dependencies that could   
lead to errors.                                                                    

On the other hand, smaller tasks like 'only_subtask_1' might benefit from a more   
straightforward approach. However, Template 3's detailed breakdown even for a      
single subtask ensures that even if that subtask has internal complexities, they   
are thoroughly considered. For instance, changing types might involve several steps
like auditing existing types, updating structs, modifying serialization, etc., each
with their own dependencies.                                                       

I should also consider maintainability. If the user breaks down every request into 
individual template applications, they might end up with fragmented plans, making  
it harder to see the bigger picture. However, if each use of the template is       
well-structured, as in Template 3, it might still be manageable.                   

Looking at the actual code structure in the provided files (like nodes.rs,         
graph.rs), the CodeGraph has interdependencies with types and parsing. Therefore,  
understanding how changing types impacts the rest of the system is crucial. Using  
the full_task approach ensures these are handled cohesively.                       

Moreover, the experiment's phase 2 results indicated that g00_3, using Template 3, 
produced a comprehensive plan for the full_task, indicating its effectiveness. The 
other templates were less effective in handling dependencies and providing         
rationale.                                                                         

In conclusion, while using the template on the full_task provides a holistic view  
and manages dependencies, breaking into subtasks like only_subtask_1 can still be  
effective with the right template (Template 3) due to its detailed structure. The  
recommendation would be to use Template 3 for both scenarios but tailor the        
approach based on task complexity.                                                 
